All right.
So in this lesson, we're going to add a new dependency to our project.
And that, of course, is going to be Vue router.
So Vue router is a totally separate NPM library.
It is still developed and maintained by the core Vue team.
So the same group of developers that develops Vue builds Vue router.
So of course the two are very compatible with each other.
However, they are two distinct libraries because you are not obligated to use routing in an app.
It is an add on, it is an extension pack and as we talked about earlier in the course, the goal in
view is to give you the core library and allow you to choose which parts of the ecosystem you want to
add when you want to add them.
And that's exactly what we've proven so far in this course.
So far, we only needed Vue to build the view, layer the components, and now we need to add a new
library in order to enable routing.
All right.
So we're going to use the view CLI in order to install this package.
Earlier on in the course, we used the same approach to add tailwind.
So you may recall the command, it's going to be Vue, which is our CLIA program.
Then the command is ADD and then the name of the package or dependency.
So in this case, we want to just type in router and it will know that we mean Vue router.
So let's execute that.
It may make an initial request to NPM as it's doing now just to fetch the dependency.
And then it's going to give you a configuration question or two about how you would like to configure
Vue router.
It's going to give you this question.
Use history mode for router.
For this one I want to press and for know this basically deals with how our view app is going to be
served or it's rather a configuration setting that we have to adjust depending on how our view app is
going to be served in production.
We don't really want to worry about this right now and this is the simplest option we can choose that
will allow us to get introduced to the features of router simply for the purposes of learning.
So let's select and for know here press enter and with that it's going to start installing that dependency.
Now keep in mind it's possible that when you install this dependency, your app compilation will break.
What I mean by that is NPM run serve may not work when you try to run it and that is totally fine.
We're going to fix that problem in the upcoming lessons.
For now, what I'd like to do to close this lesson off is to open up the code and I want to head to
a special file in my project.
And that file is our main asphalt.
It's found in the source, main source folder manger asphalt.
And as you may recall, this is the launch point for our project.
This is where everything kicks off in the browser.
You may recall here that we have this create app function.
It starts with a top level view component, which in this case is app.
And then we mount that view app, that view JavaScript object to a div in our HTML with the idea of
app.
So this is the top of the pyramid, this is the top of the hierarchy.
This is where the entire app starts up, right?
And so the only important thing that I'd like you to notice in this file is that view.
Seelye automatically set up some bits of the router for us.
So you can see here on line number eight that we are importing something called router.
And this is actually coming not from a router file but rather from an index JS file in the router folder
which has just been created for us.
So in case you're unfamiliar with how Node and JavaScript work, if we provide a folder to import from
what Node is going to do is look for a file called index JS in that folder.
That's what allows us to specify a folder here, a relative path to the router folder without a specific
index such as file name.
The implicit fallback behavior of node is to look for a file called Index State.
Yes.
So what we're really importing from is this file right here.
All right.
While we're at it here, since all of our other imports here are using this at sign syntax, let's get
rid of this relative syntax from the current directory and let's import from the top of the source directory.
So it's just going to be replacing this dot with that at sign.
And again, this just means source slash router which will look for an index that just file by default.
So whatever this file is exporting is what we're importing in this file.
It will come back to what that is in a later lesson.
The point is we are importing this router from this index just file.
And then in order to actually connect it to our view app, you'll notice here on line 13, we're invoking
a method called use on the View app that they create app function.
It turns back to us and then to that use method we're passing in our new router object.
And that's as simple as it gets.
That is all we need to do in order to configure a view router out with our View project.
Of course, we start to talk a lot about what this router is, which we will do.
But the key takeaways once you create a router, typically in a separate file, you'll simply import
it in your startup file like main JS you'll call the use method on the app object and you will provide
the router to it.
All right, so I'm going to save this file and we're going to stop things there.
In the very next lesson, we're going to try to fix our compilation issues, if there are any.
And we're going to take a brief look at how View Router actually helps us in the browser by allowing
us to navigate from page to page.
And afterwards we're going to dive into this index such as file and see exactly how we construct a router
from scratch.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.